The Project Gutenberg eBook of The life, travels, exploits, frauds
and robberies of Charles Speckman, alias Brown, who was executed at
Tyburn on Wednesday 23d of November, 1763, by Charles Speckman

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: The life, travels, exploits, frauds and robberies of Charles
       Speckman, alias Brown, who was executed at Tyburn on Wednesday
       23d of November, 1763

Author: Charles Speckman

Release Date: April 9, 2023 [eBook #70512]

Language: English

Produced by: Bob Taylor and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at
             https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images
             generously made available by The Internet Archive)

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE LIFE, TRAVELS, EXPLOITS,
FRAUDS AND ROBBERIES OF CHARLES SPECKMAN, ALIAS BROWN, WHO WAS EXECUTED
AT TYBURN ON WEDNESDAY 23D OF NOVEMBER, 1763 ***





  Transcriber’s Note
  Italic text displayed as: _italic_




  THE

  Life, Travels, Exploits,

  Frauds and Robberies,

  OF

  Charles Speckman, _alias_ Brown,

  Who was Executed at TYBURN, on _Wednesday_ the
  23d of _November_, 1763.

  By far the most dexterous of his Profession in this
  or any other Country.

  CONTAINING,

  A genuine Recital of more than Five Hundred
  Thefts, Frauds, and Felonies, committed by him in
  _England_, _Scotland_, _Ireland_, _North America_, and the
  _West Indies_, during the Course of Fifteen Years.

  WITH

  Several Maxims, Hints, and Remarks, by Way of
  Caution to the Public, to prevent or detect the Designs
  of Sharpers and Thieves from being carried into Execution.
  The whole NARRATIVE being wonderful and
  surprizing, and yet in all Respects strictly true.

  Written by HIMSELF,
  Whilst under Sentence of Death in _Newgate_.

  _LONDON_:

  Printed for J. FULLER, in _Blowbladder-Street_, near
  _Cheapside_. M.DCC.LXIII.

  [Price ONE SHILLING.]

  [Illustration: 3 daggers] This Pamphlet written for the publick Good
  ONLY, is entered in the Hall-book of the Company of Stationers, and
  at the Stamp-office, whoever pirates or prints any Part of it, will
  be prosecuted to the utmost Rigour of the Law.




[Illustration: Decoration]

_I do hereby empower_ Mr. John Fuller, _of_ Newgate-street, _to Print
this only Genuine and True Account of my Life and Transactions for
many Years. Containing the most astonishing Variety of Incidents, of
any Person ever under the same Misfortunes with myself_.

  Charles Speckman.

  Press-Yard, Newgate,
  22 Nov. 1763.

  _Witness_,

  Francis Caveac,
  John Anstey.

[Illustration: Decoration]




[Illustration: Decoration]

  THE

  LIFE

  AND

  WONDERFUL TRANSACTIONS

  OF

  Mr. CHARLES SPECKMAN,

  alias BROWNE, &c.


There is not perhaps in the world a more agreeable study than that of
Biography; nor any thing sought after and read with greater avidity,
than the lives of unfortunate men, and those who suffer under the
hands of the executioner more than any. In this narration will be
seen, the early propensity to acts of robbery, preying upon, and
living in an absolute state of war with all mankind, the long series
of years Mr. Speckman escaped punishment, in which time he committed
more robberies than any person before him brought to publick shame;
all of them related by the unhappy man himself, in the following
plain and undisguised manner.

       *       *       *       *       *

I think proper for the benefit of the public, and to make all
possible attonement for the injuries I have done to my fellow
creatures, in England, Scotland, Ireland, North-America, and the
West-Indies, in all which countries I have committed acts of
hostility and depredation innumerable; I have no interest at all in
this, only to warn the unwary, how they shall in general avoid the
falling a prey to thieves and sharpers, and make those who tread in
my wretched paths, be sensible and be warned in time to sly evil
courses, as too truly will they find verified, that _the wages of sin
is death_; besides that of undergoing in their wicked career, what is
worse than death, the stings and daggers of a guilty mind: so that
let their race be as long as it will, and their illicit practices
attended with continual success, yet not one hour of true and solid
happiness is the consequence.

About sixteen years ago, to the best of my memory, my father who
lived in good reputation in London, where I was born, put me to a
boarding-school, and bestowed more money on my education, than on all
the rest of my brothers and sisters, (I was the eldest of eighteen)
for all which I never made any grateful return, which gives me great
affliction, and the most pungent remorse, when added to my present
load of trouble. To shew my early inclination to what has brought me
to this deserved doom, I well remember, as I was standing by the side
of Mr. Andrews, a waterman, in Charles-court in the Strand, my nurse
being with me, I took a fancy to pull his watch out of his fob, at
the same time laughing in his face; on detecting me, Mr. Andrews
said, my dear, you begin betimes; the nurse, however, appeased him,
so that no ill consequences followed: I mention this affair, as my
friends rebuked me many times, by telling me of this deed, and my
early inclination to what would, and indeed has proved my ruin.

I was put to board with a worthy clergyman, by my father, at thirty
pounds a year, in order to inure me to what was good, and improve me
in learning; but my delight was riding of horses at livery-stables,
ran away from school; the wicked disobedient child, soon finds
out evil courses. The first injury I plunged myself into, was
robbing my parents of a suit of cloaths, and pawning them to go to
Sadler’s-wells. Now every fraud that my fertile brain could device, I
put in practice in my father’s name, and got various sums of money,
which answered my present purpose very well; however, my father had
me catch’d, carried home, and kept me naked in a room several days,
till I found an opportunity to get my sister’s cloaths, and with them
on, I escaped from the house. I have been often brought home from
Covent-Garden playhouse, by the orange women, to whom my father gave
two shillings each time for their trouble. I was at length taken up
by my father, and put into Covent-Garden round-house; but through the
hole the prisoners received their victuals at, I escaped, though it
was so small, no one could have conceived it possible. I learned more
wickedness here in one night, than in all my preceding excursions,
and verily believe, it tended greatly to fix me in the determinate
resolution of aspiring at every act of wickedness, my unfortunate
life has since been so fruitful of; making it my daily study to
defraud every one who came in my way, and rob every one I could
conquer.

One day I and two other boys, went into a grocer’s shop in
Drury-lane, for some sugar-candy, the grocer told me, he sold not
small quantities, on which asking him, if he was above his business,
and perceiving a watch hang up in the parlour, I rolled a halfpenny
as by accident into the parlour before me, I got the poor grocer’s
watch; in coming out, he asked me, how I dared to go there? he was
answered by my throwing some powder sugar in his eyes, which was
lying on the counter, and got off without any molestation.

Soon after this, coming from Westminster with my two companions,
there was a man had a stand by the Horse-guards, to sell all sorts
of handkerchiefs, muslin, lawn, stockings, and other things in the
pedlery way; I made bold to take him on one side, to talk about what
I was to buy of him, which he was told was to a considerable amount;
whilst I was thus amusing him, my two comrades made off with the
pedlar’s whole stock, to the amount of fourteen pounds, and upwards:
I however resolved to leave my companions, being determined, for the
future, not to keep company with any, but act entirely on my own
bottom.

I now set out for Newmarket; and, on my return home, hired a horse,
under pretence of going express for a certain lord, well known on
the turf, and came full gallop to the Blue Boar inn in Whitechapel,
where I instantly ordered twelve stalls for the horses of my lord,
which was to be there that night; telling the landlord, I was going
to Hyde-park-corner for a running horse, and my haste occasioned me
to come from my lord, without a sufficiency of money to defray all
expences, and therefore begged him to let me have twelve guineas,
to pay the charges of the horse and servant, and let his own servant
go with me, to assist in bringing to the Blue Boar the running horse
this night; all this he readily complied with; but the inn-keeper’s
servant I took French leave of in Piccadilly, put my horse up in the
usual stable and then went home to my lodgings.

Shortly afterwards, I took upon me to go about the town in a genteel
dress, with a green apron on, as a watch-maker, under pretence of
buying pieces of handkerchiefs to send abroad to my friends; I
commonly found fault with the thinness of them, holding them up with
one hand, and putting a dozen, or a piece, with the other into my
apron: generally in these expeditions, after a sufficient quantity
was obtained, I went into the country, and what could not immediately
be sold, were raffled for.——In practicing one of these tricks upon a
good worthy woman, who kept shop in the Borough of Southwark, I was
detected putting a piece into my apron; I immediately flattered the
honest woman, that I was a weaver in Spitalfields, telling her, my
uncle had a journeyman who had stole four pieces, and had sent me
with that piece to match the other, upon information my uncle had,
that the pieces were sold by his man at this shop; by this means I
got clear off, the unsuspecting woman not knowing her own.

In genteel apparel I next went among the silver-smiths and jewellers,
where my dexterity and success was so great, that I used among them
in their respective branches, it is almost incredible what quantities
of spoons, rings, buttons, buckles, stones, &c. I stole; the
robberies of this kind are so numerous, that I cannot particularize
them, but I made bold to borrow something from every silver-smith
and jeweller in the bills of mortality, and not only in all these
attempts had the good fortune to escape, but on many occasions, had
the most lavish encomiums passed on me, for the honesty of my looks,
and the humanity expressed in the lineaments of the countenance.
Alas! how seldom is it, that the outward appearance corresponds with
the inward disposition. I am a shocking instance that my face was the
most deceitful in the world. Of this kind of fraud and robberies, I
believe I have not perpetrated less than two hundred.

I went one day to Mr. Brogden, in Long-lane, West-smithfield, who
lent out wearing apparel, of him I hired a suit fit for any little
master in London; bought at the same time a satchel to put some books
in, thus equipped, I went to Mr. Greg, a watch-maker in St. James’s
street; on going into the shop, I perceived there was but one man
therein; upon his being told my father had bespoken a watch for me,
and I wanted to know if it was ready, he replied, as indeed well he
might, that he knew nothing of the matter, but that Mr. Greg his
master, being at the coffee-house, he would go to him, and ask the
question; the minute he was gone, I fixed my eye on a gold watch,
chain and seal, with which I marched off with all speed, took a
hackney coach in Pall-mall, away to Holbourn, and sold the watch,
though it was worth fifty-five, for seven guineas only, to Mary Keen,
a woman who understood that business much better than myself. She has
been transported four times.

At this time, and with this money, I went down to Reading in
Berkshire, where I took great delight in going out with my gun;
at length money falling short, I went to a milliner’s shop, under
pretence of buying some lace, to go round a cap and handkerchief,
for my sister; the milliner asked if I was not too young a man to
be a judge of lace? I replied, being young I should hope for better
usage, and left it entirely to her generosity to serve me of that
which was best of the kind; at this moment I fixed my eye on a
particular piece; pretending to have a bad cold, took my handkerchief
out to wipe my nose, laid it down on this piece of lace, which
repeating again, I took the lace up with my handkerchief, and put
it in my pocket, and then told the milliner, I would stay till I
was grown older; though it is clear I was too old for her now. I
took my leave, and marched gravely off, without the least suspicion;
and went directly to the Crown, the grand inn in Reading, hired a
horse for Maidenhead, but pushed on for London, sold the horse in
Smithfield for five pounds ten shillings, and the lace to a milliner
at Charing-cross, at a very decent price; at the same time cheapening
some of her lace, made bold to steal one piece.

Thus I found a method to deal among the milliners, without much
danger of detection, women being less on their guard than men, and
always delighted with any one who will hear them prate and chatter.
Very few milliners escaped my dexterity, for my youth, simplicity
of manners, and engaging behaviour, caused me always to pass
without suspicion; nay, on many occasions, I have been treated with
extraordinary marks of civility and politeness, and with the best the
house afforded, even after I had robbed them, which sometimes has
squeezed my heart a little, but I was too far gone in the road of
perdition to think of returning back.

I now thought of amusing myself in the country; accordingly set out
for Bath, Bristol, &c. in the first of these cities I took a room
for myself in a widow-gentlewoman’s house, who kept a shop in the
drapery way; she had a daughter, a neat, pretty, genteel girl, whom
I courted more for the sake of being free with her, than any real
love; then the mother began to trust me, and place great confidence
in me, upon her daughter’s account, which continued to the mutual
satisfaction of us all, till I found an opportunity to make off with
between twenty-five and thirty pounds-worth of goods, taken out of
the shop, and retired to Bristol, where I dealt a little among the
milliners: returned for London, but being taken ill on my journey
thither, I stopt two or three days at the Castle at Marlborough,
where I observed a great quantity of plate, and other things of
value lie very carelessly about, I only borrowed a silver tankard,
and six table spoons, to assist in defraying my expences on the
road: at Brentford I sold the tankard and spoons for five pounds ten
shillings, and stole two pair of silver paste buckles, proceeding
directly for London. I committed about fifty other robberies in the
small way, which, as being trifles, are not worthy of farther mention.

I have sometimes, for the sake of variety, gone to dyers and scourers
shops, in the character of a gentleman; on seeing none but a woman
there, I asked for my servant, who came there for my cloaths; being
told there had been none, then on asking if my cloaths were done,
(they not knowing but that I had some there) shewed me several
suits, clean, and not clean, but I never took a cleaned suit, always
pretending they should be wore once more before cleaned, desiring my
servant might be sent home as soon as ever he came; so tying them up
in a handkerchief, left the poor dyers and scourers to lament their
folly and precipitation. I used to serve the hatters in the same
manner, both in gold and silver laced hats, without being in the
least suspected.

I waited on a mercer on Ludgate-hill to cheapen some silks for
waistcoats, with sattins, and some for gowns; I requested of the
mercer to make a bill of parcels, put them up, and send his servant
with me to my lodgings in Pall-mall; which being done and come
there, on opening the bundle, told the servant there wanted a piece
of sattin, and sent him immediately home for it: The bill amounted
to forty-three pounds, and the parcel heavy, yet I easily (in the
interval of the servant’s departure and return) found means to walk
off with all. I left an answer on the bill of parcels which was
left upon the table, that my judgment was not sufficient for such a
large sum, without advice whether I should pay him at his return, or
never. I went directly to Mr. Howard’s, in Long-lane, Smithfield, and
sold the whole parcel for eighteen pounds; telling me, any quantity
brought to him he would buy. This gave me great encouragement to
continue in the mercers business: I served several other mercers in
the same manner.

Not long after this I went to a gentleman in Long-acre, hired a
chariot and pair of horses, to go to Windsor, intending to stay a
fortnight; accordingly I set off, and stayed pretty near the time
agreed on; I sent my servant to Eton, with a view of defrauding my
landlord, and for this purpose asked him for twenty guineas, with
which he very readily complied; the pretext was to purchase a pair
of horses: having thus succeeded, I slipped on one side, and set off
for London, leaving the man, chariot and horses to come at their
leisure. The next day I sent for a sword-cutler, to bring me half a
dozen swords to my own lodgings in the Hay-market, that I might take
my choice in variety, but brought never a cut and thrust, I sent him
back for some; and when he was gone, I took a walk out with the half
dozen swords, with an intention never more to return.

I then took lodgings in Duke’s court, St. Martin’s lane, where I had
not been long, but I sent the servant of the house to a jeweller, to
bring me a variety of rings, the jeweller immediately sent one of his
servants with some of all sorts; no sooner were they under my eye but
I fixed on two, set with diamonds; I told the man, as I was no judge
of their value, he would give me leave to shew them to a friend at
next door, he readily assented, and so left the honest servant for
his own amusement in my new lodgings: for I used to take a lodging
one day, and serve a tradesman in this manner, and leave it the next.

Soon after, I put on the dress of a gentleman’s servant, went
to a very great milliner’s in Pall-mall, as from a lady in
Grosvenor-square, lately come from abroad, who wanted some
assortments of her best lace, and desired one of her people with me;
according to my application it had the desired effect: I brought the
servant to a house under some repair, that I had the knowledge of;
I took the box of laces, went up stairs to shew my pretended lady,
leaving the servant in the hall, to whom immediately returning, I
told her my lady was in bed, and she must come again in an hour,
but must leave the laces, with a bill of the rates or prices of
each sort; she went away very contentedly, and I had the generosity
to follow with the whole box, and made clear off. I thought it now
high time to leave off dealing with the milliners. The garb of a
gentleman’s servant in livery, I always found the best to deceive
with at this time, and made use of it on divers occasions, with
my two companions before mentioned, Abraham Crabb, and Campbell
Hamilton, and being apprehended for a small theft, made myself an
evidence against them both; Crabb was tried at the Old Bailey,
in February 1749-50, in the mayoralty of Sir Samuel Pennant, for
stealing a peruke, value twenty shillings, and John Beaumont for
receiving, knowing it to be stolen. The evidence (as an accomplice)
I gave was, that I was about fifteen years of age, and deposed that
I had followed the business of thieving two years; the prisoners,
however, were acquitted, there being no evidence to the fact but my
own. Crabb was again indicted with Campbell Hamilton, for stealing
on the 10th of December 1749, a silver watch, value four pounds,
the property of Mr. Jonathan Scriven, in his dwelling house; and
Catherine Hall, widow, for receiving it, knowing it to be stolen:
my evidence was here also unsupported by any other; though what I
swore upon this and the former trial was nothing but the truth, with
respect to all the prisoners; the silver watch belonged to the grocer
in Drury-lane, already mentioned. I resolved never to have companions
in any of my exploits, judging that I might one day or another be
detected by my associates, as I had done by them.

Many surprizing pranks have I used with all trades in London; but
at last pursued by my evil genius, I went into the shop of Mr.
Honychurch, under St. Dunstan’s church in Fleet-street, on the 5th
of November 1750, and stole a silver watch, with which I got off,
imprudently keeping it till the next day, I offered it pawn to Mr.
Price on Snow-hill; it being advertised, he stopped me, sent for Mr.
Honychurch, and carried me out of the city to justice Fielding, who
committed me to New-prison, Clerkenwell, thence removed to Newgate,
took my trial on the 10th of December 1750, in the mayoralty of
Francis Cokayne, Esq; was capitally convicted, and received sentence
of death with fifteen others, among whom were Mr. Baker, the
sugar-baker; and Mr. Joshua West, a clerk of the Bank.

In the course of my trial, which is all fact as sworn against me,
it proceeds thus: Mr. Honychurch deposed that the watch was taken
with the prisoner on the 6th of November, was lost on the 5th, had
his name and number on it, never had been sold, and by advertising
it, by that means it was stopped. William Batersby, Mr. Honychurch’s
servant, gave his testimony, that he was alone in the shop, the
prisoner came in with a watch to have it cleaned, he then appeared
in another complexion than now, he had on a laced hat, a waistcoat
with either gold or silver button-holes; he desired his watch to be
taken to pieces, while that was doing, he said that some of the work
was dropt; adding, he was sure some of them were lost! I looked upon
the ground, there were none down, but all right before me; then he
was for taking it to show some other watch-maker, I said I must not
take it to pieces and put it together again for nothing, he said, I
will take and shew it to another man, and if he says there is nothing
lost, I will bring it again; he took it not put together, also two
new wheels, a third and contrite wheel away with him, which lay
before me; when he stayed longer than I expected, I began to suspect
him, and looking about saw a hook was empty, where a new watch hung
just before he came in. I went to the watch-maker where I supposed he
would go to, and asked for him; he told me no such person had been
there. Then I told my master the affair, who told me by his book it
was a watch he had made for a gentleman in Devonshire. When Mr.
Price sent for my master, I went with him, and knew the prisoner. On
being asked by the court, if there had been any person in the shop
betwixt the time he last saw the watch, and the prisoner’s coming in;
replied, not one person from opening the shop, till the watch was
lost, but him.

James Bruin, servant to Mr. Price, declared, that between six and
seven o’clock on the 6th of November in the evening, as he was
sitting in the parlour, somebody came in and asked for Mr. Price; on
going into the shop saw the prisoner, who was dressed in a silver
laced hat, a green waistcoat with gold button holes, who said he
wanted to see the master, if he was not engaged; on being told that
he could do as well, he took a watch out of his pocket, and I saw it
was the watch advertised that day, I went and told my master of it,
who came down stairs, and told the prisoner he had stole it, which
he denied. My master sent directly for Mr. Honychurch; his man came,
and said the prisoner was the person that was at his shop yesterday
morning. While our man was gone, the prisoner owned to my master and
I, that he had stole it; we went before justice Fielding the next
day, and the prisoner was committed. So far the trial, in which the
fact was but too plainly fixed on me: however, in my defence I urged
that all said of me was false; I did not deny but I carried the watch
to be pawned; I was coming down Snow-hill, and a well dressed man
asked me if I had mind to earn a shilling; I said yes, so carried it
to pawn; then the young gentleman said, there was a watch stolen, so
stopped me; but neither the judge nor jury paid any regard to such
a pitiful come off. I put myself in a wretched habit, thinking that
joined to my youth, might excite the pity of all parties.

At this time I had many friends to make application for me in
mitigation of my sentence, and had the happiness to be sent abroad in
the summer of 1751, there to continue for fourteen years; I sailed
from Gravesend in the ship Trial, captain Johnson, for Patomack
river, in Virginia; there went on board this ship with me Mr. Joshua
West, before mentioned, to be transported as well as myself. As
soon as the ship arrived, intelligence thereof was sent to colonel
Lee’s, that the convict servants were come from London; we dropped
anchor on a Saturday, and the Wednesday following was sale-day, and
the planters came on board to buy; there was one John Burgess, a
native of the country, came to me, asking very civilly what I could
do; I told him I could work, but not hard; I then asked him if there
were any milliners, watch-makers, or such trades as I worked at in
London, he turned his head and laughed; I told him I did not care,
as my father had paid my passage, but the captain replied he had
not, and I having no friends was forced to submit, and be sold as
others were. My master took me on shore to an ordinary, and told
me if I would be a good boy and work, I should want for nothing: I
then asked him, if he and I were to go halves? he replied, in what?
and I said in thieving: but on telling me I was come into a wrong
country for that, and practising theft would soon bring him to ruin;
I urged that would certainly be his portion if he did not let me go.
He rejoiced much at his bargain, and I at his folly. We then set out
for home on horse-back, I behind him, and had fifteen miles to ride;
at length got home, and seeing my master’s palace, I took it for a
pidgeon-house: being tired and hungry, they brought me some victuals
called humeny and milk, which I thought very sweet and good. Next
morning my master roused me by-times to grind my hoe, I looked very
hard at him, and told him I was not used to that kind of work; he
however took me to a field to shew me how to hill-up some corn; I
told him the trade I was sent from London for, was much easier than
this. In short, I could think of nothing but my old trade, and soon
found means to break into a neighbour’s house, with an intent to rob
them of what I could catch, with a fixed resolution to ruin myself
and my master, for work did never agree with me; however, I got two
gold rings, and some wearing apparel, which I brought to my mistress,
knowing her to conceal other things for us, but she would have
nothing to do with my prize: this caused me to run away, and make my
case known to a justice of the peace, who had me apprehended, and
sent for my master, upon my own discovery; I was sent to goal, but my
master bailed me out till sessions, when I received sentence to be
whipped and pilloried, which was rigourously executed: my master was
obliged to make a fourfold gratification for the injury I had done
the party robbed.

My servitude being very intollerable to me, I determined to make
a trial of another escape, and for that purpose took one of my
master’s horses, a suit of his cloaths, and other necessaries for
my journey; but not considering the expence, the danger in crossing
the rivers, and having no pass from a magistrate, I was soon taken
up, and brought back to my master, who gave me a terrible whipping,
he fleed me from neck to rump, so that I was obliged to lie on my
belly for several days and nights; and when I was well enough to
walk, he sold me into the back settlements of Virginia, I believe
four hundred miles within land where I was, when general Braddock
came with his troops from Alexandria in Virginia, on his way to the
Ohio, in the year 1755, where he was defeated with great slaughter by
the French; my master and his family removed for fear of the French
and the scalping parties of Indians, which were scouring the country
all round, and committing the most shocking and inhuman murders. I
got acquainted with serjeant Campbell, of colonel Dunbar’s regiment,
and begged of him to let me go to the battle; he granted my request,
and I got clear of my master. After our defeat, on the 9th of July,
we had a very long and tiresome march back from the field of battle,
near Fort du Quesne, to Philadelphia, in Pensylvania; when there
being bare of cloathing, and in want of money, being withal very
hungry, I took up my London trade, and soon stole a whole piece of
handkerchiefs, a dozen in number; I tarried in Philadelphia till
I had got good stock of cloaths and money, meeting with continual
success in defrauding the public, by my old and wicked proceedings.

I travelled with all possible diligence to New York, where I found a
great many milliners; I thought of immediately touching them with my
London mode; into one shop I went to practice in my usual way, but
going to sell the lace, I was apprehended by one of the aldermen,
upon suspicion of stealing it, and the owner hearing of the affair,
came and claimed the lace, brought me to trial, and I was sentenced
to be whipped behind a cart, at the corner of every street in the
city, which was executed upon me, brought back again to the goal, and
in a few days ordered out of the city, never more to return, on pain
of having my sentence again repeated. I was passed twenty miles by
constables, and then left to myself to proceed wherever my fancy led
me: in walking about two miles farther, I fell into company with one
Browne, a namesake and farmer; he asked me if I could work, I told
him but a little, though very willing to learn. He took me home, used
me very well; however, I had not been with him long, before he sold
a plantation, and observing where he put the money and the key of
the chest, took my opportunity to seize all his money in dollars and
paper, amounting to one hundred and ten pounds, with a horse, saddle
and bridle, made off directly for New York, where altering my dress,
and proceeded direct for Philadelphia, there putting up at the sign
of the Indian King, I was obliged to sell my horse and buy another,
intending to get a little farther out of the way of enquiry, at least
for the present.

For this purpose I continued my route to Winchester, in the back
settlements of Virginia; when finding myself near my old master, made
enquiry for him, found him out, and made him a present of a silver
watch, besides some money which contented the old man very well.
He then gave me up my conviction, and went with me to Winchester,
where he procured a pass as a free man for me to go wherever I had
a mind without molestation. From this place I went to Port-Tobacco,
to see my first master, to let him know I had mended my fortune with
other peoples gains; he wished my joy on the occasion, and in a few
days took me leave of him, and steered my course for Charles Town,
in South Carolina, bought a gun to amuse myself on the road, and had
near nine or ten horses, I swapped, changed, and defrauded people
of, under pretence of going with an express to Charles Town; where
at length arriving, I met with my brother, that I had not seen for
twelve years and upwards; he looked very cold and indifferent upon
me, thinking I should bring him to disgrace and shame, as I had done
in England. I got acquainted with one Joseph Warren, and hired myself
to him, as an overseer of his Negroes. I had not been in this station
long, before he sold me a horse at my own price, which I immediately
sold in town, and went on board the Three Brothers, captain Holliday,
bound for Antigua; the greatest reason for my retiring thus hastily
from Charles Town, was, I had got acquainted with one Mrs. Broughton,
a married woman; her husband swore he would cut my ears off, or take
away my life, if I dared to continue any intercourse with his wife,
he was extremely jealous of me, and indeed not without sufficient
cause.

We proceeded on our voyage, and had got within two days sail of
Antigua, when we fell in with four French privateers, after a stout
resistance of sailing and plying our wooden guns, of which we had
mounted twenty two, we were taken and carried into Martinico, there
remained three weeks, till a cartel ship came and carried us to
Antigua: in this island I assumed the character of a master painter,
and got a job to paint the Duke of Cumberland privateer, belonging
to George Walker, which having finished, I was paid. I now went to
St. Christopher’s, in the packet, where I had not been long before
I entered on board the Fox privateer, captain Woolford, for a six
months cruize, but had no success, we returned to the same port: as
I had been thus unfortunate at sea, was willing to try my luck by
land, I went into the country to a gentleman, told him I was courting
a young lady of fortune, and begg’d him to lend me a suit of his
cloaths, he very willingly did; I took him into a house, where we had
some punch, which having drank, I went out and left him to amuse
himself with his own folly. I sold the cloaths, without the least
probability of discovery; I secreted myself a few days, and went on
board a vessel then ready to sail for Philadelphia.

After my arrival, I got acquainted with a recruiting officer, beating
up for volunteers to go against the French fort on the Ohio. I
enlisted with him for four years, and to be paid half the money down,
I bought a horse to go with him to Carlisle, in the back settlements
of Pensylvania. There I saw my captain, who was vastly pleased with
me; our company was reviewed by the major of the light horse, he
having the superiour command. I was pitched on for a light horse man,
under the command of captain Thompson, our general Forbes being very
ill, was obliged to be carried in a horse litter, between two horses;
it wanted painting, I was ordered to Carlisle to buy some paint, for
that service; I was ordered by one of the officers to bring his girl
from Carlisle with me, which I did, and by the way, had the pleasure
of giving her the compliment of a road relish; my committing such
a rash action, made me imagine the whole camp might be set on fire
by her; I thought nothing was so expedient for me as desertion, for
fear of bad consequences, and went off the same night, being the
10th of July 1758, with my horse, regimentals, and accoutrements,
and travelled for the back settlements of Virginia; in short, I went
through many dangerous places, and almost insurmountable difficulties
before I reached Williamsburg; where as soon as I arrived, sold my
horse and regimentals, and put on the dress of a farmer, in order
to buy corn; but notwithstanding this scheme succeeded so well as
I expected, I thought of speedily shifting my quarters. For which
purpose, I once more thought of paying a visit to Charles Town, where
I entered into a regiment of Buffs, raised by the colony of South
Carolina, to go against the Cherokee nation; I was made a serjeant,
and being sent one day to change a ten pound bill for my captain,
I had changed it at a Jew’s, who afterwards charged me with a bad
bill of twenty pounds, of which I was entirely innocent; however,
I was sent to Goal, and confined for two months, in as deplorable
a condition, as ever poor man was. When released from prison, I
was sent to the barracks, where I continued in a very bad state of
health for some time. After my recovery, I became acquainted with a
gentleman, he and I took to coining of bad money; which we carried on
for some time with considerable success; but at length we parted good
friends in the Country, and threw away our utensils. I took my course
for New Bern, in North Carolina, in my way I married, and my wife’s
father thinking me too great a rake, to be trusted with her portion,
look’d very lightly on me; but I found means to bring him greatly in
debt, and made off directly, leaving the old man, daughter and all,
to please themselves in the folly of their Wisdom. I made free with
one of my father’s horses, and made for a place called Brunswick,
in the same province of North Carolina. Then I agreed with captain
Wright, for my passage to Jamaica, we were weather-bound for three
week. I then verily thought my wickedness was the cause of our delay,
through the just vengeance of Almighty God. At last we had a fair
wind, made sail, and had a very favourable passage to Port Royal; the
next tide after our arrival here, we weighed anchor and made Kingston
harbour.

On my going on shore here, being very poor and distressed, I began
to think of something for my appearance in so fine a place; for this
purpose I got acquainted with a taylor, and told him, I was come
there to settle at my trade of a limner; by this expedient I got a
very good suit of cloaths, and thought myself in a good situation.
The next acquaintance I had, was one Mrs. Pembruge, who had several
negroes, her own property, I thought this a fine fortune, and it was
certainly so to me, though I soon found her to be a married woman,
but parted according to law from her husband; she had a great many
gallants, I found myself her principal favourite, and must confess,
I got acquainted with one of her sparks; he told me, he had a much
greater regard for her, than she had for him: and said, he had a
chest at his master’s accompting-house, which he believed was full of
dollars: I directly acquainted Mrs. Pembruge with this, who requested
me to get it from him, if possible; I then made use of every means to
get the prize into my possession; he came and gave me directions how
and when to send for it; I procured a negroe, and sent him agreeable
to my orders; every thing succeeded, and the chest was brought to
me: I went to a certain private house, examined the contents, which
proved to be cambricks and lawns, which I went directly and sold
for fifteen pounds sterling, leaving out two pieces for a suit of
linnen for Mrs. Pembruge, but gave the gallant nothing for his pains,
telling him it was of no value.

After this, I became acquainted with Mr. Torries, a Jew, who told me
he had an hundred pound bill at my service whenever I pleased, and
for whatever use I had a mind to apply it: I went the next morning
to a store, purchased goods to the amount of one hundred and twenty
pounds, desiring the store-keeper to send them to my lodgings; he
came with the goods himself; I then shewed him the hundred pound
note, told him I had borrowed it, and was to give five pistoles to
the lender for two months; on this he told me, I looked like a very
honest gentleman, and would give me credit for the whole for three
months; I was to have gone to him the next morning, but declined
that. I run in debt with many other people upon the island, to a
considerable amount: I sold all the goods to the Jew, who lent me the
note for fifty pounds. Mrs. Pembruge and I made off for Spanish-town,
in order to settle with her husband, and get her own slaves from
him. At this time, the person who let me have the chest full of
cambricks and lawns, followed us; she told him how great a fool he
was to follow one who he knew full well had not the least regard
for him, though he had lavished away all his own honest gains, and
robbed others to support her; though she was kind to me, yet I think
there never was a woman of a harder heart, or of a more cruel and
ungrateful disposition in the world; those who shewed a more than
ordinary regard for her, were sure of the worse treatment; now living
in plenty, she forgot all former want and misery; and I do verily
believe, she would have cut the throat of any man who should rescue
her from want, or save her life.

She was a good looking woman, and to those who knew her not, appeared
an angel, but in truth a devil. The old gallant being stung to the
quick at Mrs. Pembruge’s base behaviour, went back to Kingston,
and informed against us both, and we were taken into custody, and
committed to Spanish-town goal, for the fraud of the linnen; in this
prison we lay three months; at length the evidence was brought to
the same goal, and the regard he had for this woman being still as
great as ever, he wrote a letter to her, full of the most tender
professions of esteem and love; begged her pardon for being the cause
of her confinement; that he was sensible the charge against her
and Charles Speckman was not just; nay, that he knew us both to be
innocent, and that he would so swear upon the trial; and never could
rest or have quiet of mind for taking this ungenerous step, to abuse
and defame the character of the best woman in the world, and that of
the worthy gentleman her companion. We were removed to Kingston, to
take our trials at the assizes; in the interim the evidence broke
goal, and made his escape, we were for want of prosecution discharged
the second court-day.

Thinking it would not be so well to continue in Kingston, I left
Mrs. Pembruge, and went towards Black-river, and Savannah la Mar,
where I hired a horse, and proceeded to Montague-bay: there I met
with a sister, who I had not seen before for twelve years. I soon got
acquaintance in the neighbourhood, and especially with a daughter
of colonel Savory’s; I was determined to settle here, and live in
an honest way; all her family greatly caressed and loved me, and I
found that I had no small interest with her friends; I found myself
absolute master of the young lady’s heart, my happiness was compleat.
In a short time we were married; four days before, she made me a
present of one hundred pounds in cash, to get necessaries: the day
we were married, all the negroes came to wish me joy, and hoped
I would make them a good master; the sight of them in a state of
slavery, affected me very much; I wished to have made presents to
them all, and wished myself on an immediate voyage for London, I had
not enjoyed the married-state long, till my wife was taken very ill,
and soon after died; she was a very worthy woman, and her departure
a great loss to me. It immediately unhinged the tranquillity of my
mind, so that I determined to sell all off, and return to Kingston,
and to my old practices again.

Where being arrived, I enquired for and soon found out Mrs. Pembruge,
and entirely forgot my deceased wife: we lived together as usual,
but money falling short, I fell into the immediate exercise of my
old pranks. I bought up a great quantity of flour, getting as long
credit as I could, but sold it all again directly for ready money.
In like manner I got linnen and other things from different stores,
and sold them as I had done the flour. One man I run pretty deeply
in debt with, and promised him a good horse in part of payment; to
accomplish this, I next morning hired a wherry to carry me to Passage
Fort, where I hired a horse for Spanish-town, but instead of going
there, returned to Kingston, and sold the horse to my merchant, and
received some money in pocket. I confined myself during the remainder
of my stay to my lodgings, being afraid to go out, my safety prompted
me so to do, fearing the being detected, Kingston being but a small
city, and not very populous; before I left the island I buried Mrs.
Pembruge, and then bid adieu to Jamaica for ever.

I went privately on board the brigantine Betsey, captain Goodwin,
bound for New York; at this time I pretended to be a doctor, and
having two other ships in company, whose hands were very sickly,
I was put on board one of them to bleed several of the men, which
I performed though with much fear; and one of them that I gave a
draught to, gave me four dollars for the service; soon after our
own people were taken ill; them I served in the same manner; at
length I was taken ill myself, and at our arrival at Sandy-hook, was
carried on shore, put to bed, and grew so much worse during three
weeks, that I was obliged to have the clergy by me, thinking my end
at hand: happy had it been so, but God for worthy purposes, and for
the good of the world, reserved me for an ignominious death. I had
extraordinary good usage of every kind from the gentlemen of this
city: indeed, throughout all America their generosity and hospitality
are almost boundless, especially to English people. Though I was by
these worthy citizens used in so kind a manner, I made them most
ungrateful returns. As soon as well, I enlisted as a serjeant in
captain Thompson’s company of rangers, for whom I enlisted several
men, but cheated them of their advance money; and went to several[1]
stores, took up linnen, and other effects, in the captain’s name,
to the amount of twenty pounds. Then I hired a horse, and set off
for Boston in New England; I had been no more than two days on
my journey, till I was obliged to hire a chaise and harness, &c.
to enable me to go through my long journey; this I did of an old
gentlewoman in Connecticut, and took chaise and horse to the end
of my journey, had the chaise new painted, and sold it to the best
bidder; I also sold the horse and harness. My stay was but short at
Boston, I went to Salem, about twenty miles from Boston, where I
took lodgings, courted a widow-gentlewoman’s daughter, then took a
shop, set up the business of painting, and got several considerable
jobs, but all the while run very much in debt with every body. I got
acquainted with a gamester in this town; he wanted improvement; we
contrived to touch all we could, and then make off. We had great
success, several horses, watches, and other things in trust, were
the effect of our industry. The people of Salem, are not only the
most unsuspicious, but the best dispositioned, humane and friendly,
and the most agreeable in all respects, in the whole world. I hired
a chaise at Salem, and a single horse, to carry me out for two days
pleasure; I went directly to Newport in Rhode-island, sold the
chaise, bought another horse, and with my companion, went as fast
as we could for Philadelphia; when arrived, we directly went on the
gambling scheme, and had very great luck; but not agreeing in sharing
our booty, we parted. He wanted to aspire at my art of dealing; this
I chose not to trust with any one, for reasons already mentioned.
The gamester took his passage for the West-Indies; I resolved to
continue in Philadelphia, and had thoughts of matrimony again, that
I might the better be enabled to carry on my designs, get into debt,
and in due time run away. I met with a young woman, she passed for a
very good fortune, we were soon married, but fortune she had none;
tho’ many rich and powerful relations, whose interest was for my
wife, and of great service to me, I had credit every where; but being
dissatisfied with my wife, I told her that I had urgent business at
New York, to see a commander I expected from the West Indies; as my
business lay all there, I desired her to put up in a large trunk, a
pair of sheets, a pillow, and other necessaries that I thought would
answer my purpose: I must confess, she was a compleat housewife, and
very industrious. My inclination, however, led me for England, the
first opportunity: accordingly I set out on my journey towards South
Carolina, hired a servant, and on the road, took all my effects out
of the trunk, filled it with combustables of a great weight, raised
money on it, and left it in the care of my unsuspecting landlord;
hired two horses, and went to Annapolis in Maryland; here I found
out my wife’s real character, and that she had a child at nurse,
which finding out, I bought some cloaths, and presented to her, in
remembrance of her mother. The next morning I set out for Edenton, in
North Carolina, where on my arrival, I met with some jovial company,
that pleased me extremely well: I stayed three weeks with them,
constantly gaming: I won more than one hundred and fifty pounds;
with part of this money I bought a race horse, intending to run him
as opportunity offered, on our journey to the south, which I did
several times, and always won. My servant and I agreed very well, he
was a trusty fellow, a good servant, kept my secrets inviolable, and
without any fear. Before we reached Charles Town, we had got six or
seven horses, and sold them about thirty miles from the places they
were taken from. I used often to make a halt for necessaries for
myself, and to the prejudice of the public.

We at length reached Charles Town, where I discharged my trusty
servant; enquired after my old acquaintance Mrs. Broughton, found
her, and let her know my intentions were for England; she smiled,
and told me, she could not believe it, and set forth the danger and
difficulty of such an enterprize from the enemy, together with the
hazard of the seas. I enquired for her husband, but being told he was
gone a voyage to the West Indies, this removed my fears; we drank
some bottles of wine together, repeated our old scenes of action,
though she had received many a hearty drubbing for what we had done
before, which the husband was determined never to forgive; he was a
very jealous man, but with great reason he was so; I knew that very
well, and therefore was the more conscious of my own and her crimes.

My mind continued still to run upon England; I took a walk to the
bay, and met with captain Sclater, bound for England, made a bargain
for my passage, told him I had an estate fallen to me, and was going
home to take possession of it; got all necessaries for the voyage,
took leave of all my acquaintances, and in 1761, went on board; my
servant, who still continued in town, begged to accompany me wherever
I should go, but being at this time very sick, I was obliged to leave
him behind me, tho’ very unwilling. After being on board about three
weeks, I began to write; at the same time telling the captain, I had
sent the most valuable of my papers home in the West India fleet.
We had a long passage of nine weeks, and the day before we made
Falmouth, a most terrible hurricane came on, the oldest person on
board had never before seen the like: we resigned our selves to the
mercy of God, and the mountains of waves; however, we at length put
into Falmouth, in a shattered condition. Captain Sclater and I went
directly on shore, I then told him my intention of going up to London
by land. I had a negroe of his to sell, but could not get my price
for him; the gentleman I applied to, knowing my friend, desired me to
be perfectly easy, as I might have ten or twenty pounds to carry me
to town; I took only ten guineas, and gave him my note for it. I also
settled with the captain, and gave him a note for thirty-five pounds,
for the payment of my passage, and other matters betwixt us.

I set out for London along with part of the guard that came with the
money, brought over in the Lisbon packet; my friend at Falmouth lent
me one of his horses; when we came to Exeter I took a post-chaise,
but not before I had borrowed twenty guineas of the landlord, who
really thought I was a sharer in this fine prize, and master of the
packet. The whole sum was imagined to be seventy thousand pounds. I
made a bold attempt, and got some of this money, and should have got
much more, but for the want of a partner. I put this and the rest of
my money into the seat of the chaise, suffered a man to ride behind
to the next post town, where I quitted the chaise, put the money in
a box, and had it sent to town by the next waggon, and which came
very safely to my hands. I was vain enough to think with proper
assistance, I could have got hold of the greatest part of this cargo
of money. I set out post for town on horse-back; my behaviour all
the way was such as gave every body satisfaction, from the genteel
treatment they all had from me on the road; they gave me the greatest
character, which I turned to the best advantage, and made several
little sums by the way. On searching my pockets in London, I found
myself possessed of more than one hundred pounds; but thought of
having another push at the treasure, which was expected in town every
hour; I went to the inn in Friday-street, told the book-keeper all
the circumstances relating to the money, and where I had left them
on the road, with other descriptions that gave him satisfaction; and
that my concern in the cash was considerable; he told me, I should
be heartily welcome to all the money he had, accordingly he brought
me eight guineas; after expressing my concern for giving him so much
trouble, I walked away from him.

I did not think of visiting him any more; but went to Mr. Lane’s in
Drury-lane, where I hired a chariot, with a coachman and footman, in
order to pay a visit to my father, whom I had not seen for fourteen
years; my good father was glad to see me, I promised him to go again
shortly, but never did more. The misfortunes I have undergone,
has been, I am certain, intirely owing to the continual state of
rebellion, that I lived in with my dear parents; and God for such
unnatural practices, has been pleased to bring me to this most just
and deserved punishment, I am now shortly to suffer. Oh! that from my
sad fate, children would learn obedience to their parents, which will
be attended with every desirable advantage on earth; be a blessing
to themselves, and an honour to the human race; the enjoyment of
peace and felicity in this world, and the sure and certain hope of
enjoying the life which is to come. Were it known to the world, who
my parents are, it could give them no satisfaction; I have been a
disgrace to them, and would wish disobedient children to be warned
from perpetrating those infamous actions, which may in the end work
their own ruin; and such deeds, that their unfortunate parents, could
neither foresee nor prevent. If children did but properly consider,
the very fear of bringing their innocent parents to disgrace and
shame, would prevent them from pursuing those wicked practices which
end in being publickly exposed to a censorious world, and suffering
an ignominious death.

I sought out all places of gaming and horse-races, till my money
was all existed. I hired a post-chaise, with an intention of going
to Dublin, and went in this manner to Birmingham, where I defrauded
a great many tradesmen; and at my departure, hired a horse for
Park-Gate, waiting some time for a fair wind, my money running very
short; but at length a fair wind springing up, I went on board, and
there passed for Maddocks the wire dancer’s brother, who had but
lately been cast away in his passage from this port to Ireland. The
passengers were much afraid least the same fate should attend us, as
did him and his unfortunate companions; one of whom was Theophilus
Cibber, the famous comedian. But God’s holy name be prais’d, we had a
very fine passage, and arrived very safely in the port of Dublin.

I went on shore, and took me a lodging, and went the next night to
the Play-House, in Crow-Street, where I made application to Mr.
Barry, as the brother of Mr. Maddocks, and that I wanted to perform
in my deceased brother’s way, though my real intention was only
to borrow money of him. Mr. Barry told me he must see some of my
performances first: well knowing my own inability in performances
of that kind, without broken bones, I desisted from Mr. Barry and
thought of making my market of Mr. Mossop; but he told me it was too
late in the season to engage any performers. Meeting with these two
rebuffs, I went to a Goldsmith, to cheapen some buckles; he sent his
boy to my lodgings with two pair of Bristol-stone buckles, set in
silver: I sent the boy back for two small rings; In his absence, I
marched off with the buckles, and sold them at a Bagnio for my own
price. The next day the buckles were advertised, and in a few days
after I was taken at the same house by the master of the Bagnio; for
they were fools enough to tell of their prize to several neighbours,
that they had bought two fine pair of buckles very cheap, and found
themselves now in danger of much trouble for their simplicity: but
the good nature of the master, got me off from any other punishment
than that of making them a recompence for their loss. I bought me a
regimental suit of cloaths, and visited the milliners as an officer;
at one shop I desired them to put up a box of the best sorts of their
lace to shew a lady, and send the servant with me, with which the
milliner most readily complied; we went directly to my lodgings,
where I directly ordered her to go and fetch me some handkerchiefs;
in the interval I pushed off with the laces, and sold them all the
next morning. I was immediately advertised, and taken by a thief
catcher, but at the earnest intercession of his wife, he let me go;
I went for the country, and at Thomolin, I was again taken by the
description in the same advertisement, and brought back to Dublin;
but I made the people robbed, so easy with my flattering behaviour,
they did not care much what came of me, so that I meditated, and
accomplished my escape, after a good supper, and drinking plenty of
wine.

Money was now low with me, so that I was obliged to step into a
linnen-draper’s shop, and steal some handkerchiefs, made sale of them
directly, and with the money paid for my passage to Park-Gate, where
I found a ship bound to the Isle of Man, on which going directly on
board, landed at Douglas, but I found nothing could be done here, the
people being all as great thieves as myself. So in a little vessel
bound for Scotland, I got on board, who landed me at Dumfries; where
the moment I got on shore, I paid a visit to the merchants (the
meanest shopkeeper is so here) the milliners and others, and picked
up enough in defrauding them to support me tolerable. But the town
being small, business promised but a short continuance. I made the
best of my way to Edinburgh, the horse I brought with me, I sold
to a drover for three pounds; and put up at one Browne’s, of whom I
borrowed a clean shirt to go to the play, enquired for the manager of
the house, which proved to be Mr. Digges; I wanted him to engage me
on the same terms as I had made application to Messieurs Barry and
Mossop, he said I should perform the next week, but that was too late
for me. I then went to the Parliament-Close, to a silver-smith’s,
cheapened some of his buckles, and according to my usual method,
desired him to put up two pair and two rings, let his servant go with
me to my lodgings; when I sent back for something more, then went out
and sold them to Mrs. Japp, at a Bagnio, where I refreshed myself
for two days: but by some accident, was taken and committed to the
Talbooth-Goal, where I lay for three weeks, brought to my trial, and
acquitted, but ordered to depart the city in three days. I must say
I had very great favour shewn me, as any person could have, which
was more than I either expected or deserved. On my being discharged,
I hired a horse, and stole some handkerchiefs, and rode away for
Berwick, where the horse was sold. I had no opportunity nor time to
deal with the good people of Berwick, so went on board a ship bound
for London, to which place we had a long and tedious passage: on our
arrival, I thought proper to take with me, the bundle of one of the
passengers, what suited me I kept, and the rest was sold.

I made but a short stay in London, hired a horse for Bristol, sold
him there, and bought a stallion, with which I went to Cowbridge in
Glamorganshire, there sold him, and stole a silver watch, besides
some small parcels of laces. I did not like this of all the places I
had ever been at; and set off directly for London, where I sojourned
but a few days, went down to Portsmouth, took lodgings at a very
creditable house, told my landlady I was a dealer in lace, desiring
she would recommend me, which she did to several shops, where I got
several pieces, went over to Gosport among the silver-smiths, and got
some small booty there. I hired a horse in Portsmouth for London:
within four miles of Kingston, I came up with two seamen, stopp’d,
and demanded their money and watches, they gave me four guineas,
and a silver watch; I left them, wishing them safety to London.
Between Wandsworth and Vaux-Hall, I stopped a gentleman and lady in
a post-chaise, robbed them of thirteen guineas, the post-boy got off
his horse and ran away; but after I had secured the money, I rode
after him, brought him back, and gave him a hearty flogging: the
gentleman then returned me thanks in a very kind and hearty manner,
and I wished him and his lady a good night. I went that night to
Vaux-Hall, and between the hours of eleven and twelve, I stopped
the Portsmouth machine, for which I was apprehended, and carried
before the sitting justices in the Borough, where they searched me,
but found nothing, yet my pistols were in my breeches pockets; I
was discharged as they had no proof of any thing I had done amiss:
I called for my horse, and mounted, crying out to them, if any one
could ride that horse better than I, they might follow me; I went
directly into London, and was taken very bad, so that I was obliged
to go through a salivation for one month. I then began to be short
of money, and was obliged to go a thieving again; accordingly I took
a hackney coach, being still very weak, and not able to walk, I went
to a milliner’s, or lace shop, near the Royal-Exchange in Cornhill,
and stole twelve yards of point lace, to the value of thirty-six
pounds, which I sold. I began to get strength daily, so one day took
a walk to the Park, and so to Chelsea, where I hired a horse to ride
about a little while, being tired with walking; I put my horse up at
the Horse and Groom, in order to regale myself over a pint of mull’d
wine: and seeing there a fine grey mare, with new bridle and saddle,
I made enquiry of the owner’s name in the house, and found it was
Simpson; in a short time, desired the ostler to put the bridle and
saddle on the mare, as I thought Mr. Simpson stayed longer than he
promised; the man without the least suspicion brought the mare out,
I mounted and rode into London, and at the end of Fleet-Market, was
stopped by the owner, he asked if I had not that mare at Chelsea; I
very frankly assured him I had, and was going on a very hasty message
from the master of the Horse and Groom, into Bishopsgate-Street, and
was to return with all speed; he said it was very well, and left me
to proceed where I would. I went into the Borough, and left the mare
in pawn for six guineas. I went the next morning to Hyde-Park-Corner,
and hired a Spanish Mare to go to Hounslow, went round the country
to Epping, robbed two milliners of some lace, came back to town,
and left the mare in pawn for four guineas with the landlord of the
Catherine-Wheel Inn, in Bishopsgate-Street. I went out again in a
few days, and at the upper end of Tyburn-Road, I hired another horse
to take an airing, but went only round to Whitechapel, and left him
in pawn at the Chaise and Horses there, for four pounds. A great
number more horses I hired in like manner, my method was always to
get the names of the stable-keepers, and of all the gentlemen’s
horses that stood with them, that I possibly could. I always called
them familiarly by their names, thought I might have the knowledge of
them, and their mentioning some gentleman that the acquaintance might
arise from, I immediately joined with them, in affirming that it
was so. I do think I have been advertised near a hundred times, for
horses hired in this manner. As I had hitherto escaped, I thought it
now high time to leave off dealing with the stable-keepers, and turn
my hand to other branches, in which I had not been less successful.

I went into Leicester-fields to take lodgings, and the gentlewoman of
the house dealt very largely in lace, which I did not know of before;
I told her I was just come from the West Indies; she took me for a
gentleman of distinction, as I had a servant in livery along with
me. I told her, I should be glad to see some of her lace to make me
ruffles; she shewed me some point, at four pounds ten shillings: I
stole one piece, containing twelve yards; I sold six yards, and sent
the other six to pawn: the person I sent it to, stopped it, although
she had taken in pawn many pieces that she knew to be stolen by me
before. This event grieved me very much, as I was under the necessity
of turning out again. I went to a watch-maker’s in the Strand, and
finding the master out, I asked his wife, if my watch was done? she
not knowing but I had bespoke one, shewed me a great many; I stole
a fine gold watch in this time, and went away: I met, just there,
with one Smith, a bailiff’s follower, to whom I sold the watch. I
went into another watch-maker’s, being short of money, finding only a
woman in the house, she shewed me three watches, one of which I took
by force, ran out of the shop with it, and got clear off. This was in
the morning. I went to a pawnbroker’s and pledged it for two guineas.

I soon heard of a particular milliner’s shop at Charing-cross, Mrs.
Moore, where business might be done; agreeable to this information,
I hired a woman servant, sent her to Mrs. Moore’s, and desired
she would tell the milliner, I was lately come from abroad, and
wanted some shirts, neckcloths, and other things, to the amount of
eighty pounds, all of which were brought to me; but there being no
black neckcloths, I requested Mrs. Moore to go back for some, and
soon after sent the maid to desire her to bring two dozen; in this
interval, I made off into the country, and sold all, pretending to
be a dealer in lace myself. I came back to London in a few days,
and paid a visit to Mr. Snow, on Ludgate-hill as one just come from
Portsmouth, where I had landed from the West Indies; I desired him to
shew me some handsome rings, to shew to a young lady; as I told him,
he put up two that I had chosen, at six and seven guineas price; he
sent his boy with me to a tavern at Temple-bar, where on our arrival,
I sent the boy back for two rings, that his master had forgot; he
went very readily his way, and I also with my booty. I pawned these
rings to a certain man, F—— Pr——, near Covent-garden, for three
guineas and a half. I have pawned a great many things with this man,
that I am very certain he knew to be stolen; he always received every
thing from me without any hesitation, reluctance, or denial, although
he is a pretended honest man.

I then took my horse that I had standing by Covent-garden, and rid to
the George at Hounslow; where sitting over a pint of wine, I resolved
within myself that I would rob the first man I met. Going over the
heath, I met with one Mr. Simpson, a dealer in lace, as he told me;
him I robbed of fifteen pounds in money, and his silver watch; then I
pushed off for Henley on Thames, and meeting with the master of the
Crown inn in that town, I robbed him of a gold watch, and thirty-five
shillings; afterwards went to Henley, had a pint of wine, and then
returned to London. The very next night I went out again, and near
the turnpike by Battle-bridge wells, I robbed two post-chaises, one
of thirteen pounds, and the other of somewhat less; I came into town
directly, put up my horse as usual by Covent-garden, and refreshed
myself. I then fell ill, I believe from a fall from my horse; I
made application to a doctor, and soon got well. I paid a visit to
Vauxhall: going over Westminster-bridge, I robbed two gentlemen of
their watches, and thirty shillings in silver, which was all they
had, having left the remainder of their money with Mr. Tyre, at
Vauxhall. I made directly for Covent-garden, put up my horse, and lay
at a bagnio that night: I got up the next morning early, and set out
for the last Ascot-heath races, where I lost a good deal of money; in
short the chances run against me. In returning home, I was obliged to
leave my horse in pawn at Hounslow, being short of money.

I turned out on Tuesday the 27th of September last, I took coach
and paid a visit to Mrs. Dixon, a milliner, in Broad-street,
Carnaby-market; the last and fatal place for me, and for which fact
I am most deservedly to die. I asked her for a pair of minionet
ruffles, but at this time she not having any thing to suit me
(though she seemed vastly desirous to serve me) for ruffles, which
I pretended to want, she very politely begged I would come again
the next day; which in full expectation of bettering myself, I
determined not to rob her now, which with ease I could have done,
as she was intirely unsuspecting, and treated me with vast gentility
and politeness; declaring, that if I would come the next day, she
would shew me some very fine patterns of lace and ruffles. Mrs. Dixon
undoubtedly took me for a gentleman; and in this she was no farther
deceived than hundreds of people had been before her. Mrs. Dixon
described what passed betwixt us very exactly upon my trial; that
I tossed the pieces of lace about, pretending they were not fine
enough, as indeed, for my purpose, they were not: according to my
old custom, I clapped my hand to my head, as if not well, and had I
found any lace I approved, to have taken my handkerchief out to cover
it as usual. Mrs. Dixon asked me, if I was not well, and I answered
her in the affirmative; and as I had been telling her before of my
buying ruffles in Jamaica, she said very smartly, sir, perhaps the
air of England does not agree with you, and you may not intend to
return again; to which I replied, that I certainly should, having
not only a ship, but other property of great consequence there; then
I took my leave of her, promising to come on the morrow, and bring
a lady along with me: I accordingly went, and all things were ready
for my reception; many pieces of lace were shewn me, all of them very
fine indeed; I fixed my eye on a genteel and well fancied piece,
began to examine my handkerchief, according to art; but two pair of
eyes being too many for me, under pretence of my wanting some lace
for a cravat, Mrs. Dixon sent her maid out for them; I instantly
grasped my prize, slid it into my pocket, and went away, without
buying any thing. Undoubtedly Mrs. Dixon was heartily vexed, to see
herself so dexterously slung; but however, her prudence now began to
rouze itself; for she made use of the most probable means either to
regain the lace, discover the thief, or both. Upon some occasions,
it is certainly not amiss _to set a thief to catch a thief_; but be
that as it may, I am pretty certain, had not Mrs. Dixon taken the
expedient of having her lace advertised at a pawnbroker’s, she would
never have seen thief or lace more. A pawnbroker is a most villainous
employment: they not only exist by griping and grinding the faces of
the poor, but are places of refuge for things stolen, few of them
ever making enquiry how the party came by what they offer in pledge,
and the less sum of money is demanded, the less is their desire to
have it redeemed, or take notice of any advertisement; on seeing any
such, they can directly make away with the matters in dispute, or
send it amongst the Jews stolen cargoes to Holland.

On my marching off with Mrs. Dixon’s lace, I took a chair, and went
to Strand-Lane, not with any intention to dispose of what I had got,
but falling into conversation with Mrs. Davis and Mrs. Rogers, asked
them if I might dine there, and was answered in the affirmative,
discharged the chair, and dined with them on Pig; they both to me
were utterly unknown before. After dinner I pulled out the lace,
shewed it to them, then pretended to be short of Money, and but just
come from Jamaica; I prevailed on Mrs. Rogers to go and pledge part
of it, but not to take notice to Davis, what she was gone about. As
soon as she was gone, I sent Davis with the other pieces I cut of,
with the same injunction, not to tell the other. Though the whole of
my trial is in the main, true, yet with regard to the time, Davis
who pledged, and Brooks the pawnbroker, are both wrong; for it was
past one o’clock when I stole it, two when I got to Strand-Lane,
and at least three, when Mrs. Rogers went out with the first, as
she justly swore. I mention not this by way of reflection, but that
witnesses should consider when upon oath, they are to speak the whole
truth, and in this instance it is certainly a falsehood. I made a
most pitiful and shuffling defence; as indeed who could do otherwise
under the vast load of guilt, I had to sustain, being under a stupid
infatuation, and certain that my race was run. I could very easily
have escaped or eluded the most diligent search made after me, for I
saw the advertisement, had information of Davis’s being in custody
for pledging the lace, and warned if any thing was amiss, that I
would immediately fly, for fear of the bad consequences which might
ensue; but all this I slighted; indeed I saw destruction before me,
yet determined to make use of no means to shun it: by the persuasion
of a certain person who has been exceeding kind and serviceable to
me under my troubles, I went to Goodman’s-fields, stayed all night,
returned the next day which was Tuesday the 4th of October; on our
return, I heard of the enquiry made after me at this house, by very
suspicious persons; however, having bought the Beggar’s Opera, I
was determined to go, and did, to see that play this evening: after
the play was done, I returned to my lodging, and was told, two
ill-looking fellows had been to see for me, and that they were at an
alehouse just by; on this intelligence, I stood some time like one
confounded or in a trance, and at length went into my room; where
I had been scarce a quarter of an hour, till the constable and my
old friend Mr. Fuller, the thief-catcher, burst the door open, and
accosted me with, _Oh, Captain, is it you!_ then took me with my
friend to Covent-garden round-house, and the next day before Sir John
Fielding, who committed me to New-prison, as before mentioned: I
saw several of my old acquaintances about Sir John’s, and some who
have deserved what I have met with; but they say they are now turned
honest, though I greatly fear it is all a sham: but I was to them
all unknown, at least with regard to my old pranks; they did think
I dealt on the highway, and also in horses; but my old friend Mr.
Fuller knew something of me with regard to horses, not much to his
benefit: how can it possibly be so to people who have any concern
with those of my unhappy profession?

During my long course of wickedness, I never was addicted to common
or profane swearing, to excess in eating, drunkenness, and but little
to women; to none of these I can charge the errors of my life, my
faults are all my own seeking and doing, without the advice, privity,
or solicitation of any person whatever: I never was fond of even
conversing with thieves and robbers, though at accidental meetings
I have met with several, who guessing I was of their profession,
would set forth the advantage of associates, or appearing in company
to rob and plunder the honest and unwary part of mankind. Pallister
and Duplex, lately executed at Coventry, who called themselves
family men, and the heads of a great gang, pressed me violently
to go on the highway with them and their companions, but all they
could say was in vain. I never would make use of, or indeed knew the
flash or cant language, in which these two men were very expert.
Of all my acquaintance, men or women, Benjamin Campbell Hamilton,
and Mrs. Pembruge[2] were by far the worst; of the latter I have
already given a particular relation; but of the former I neglected
to mention, that after his being acquitted at the Old Bailey, (my
evidence not being sufficient against him, or his mother Catherine
Hall, in Newtoner’s lane) he soon went into foot-pad and street
robberies, with other idle boys, committing a vast number in the
fields and streets; he was with his companions taken, tried, and
executed at Tyburn on the 16th of May, 1750, with Lewis, May, and
Giddis, his associates, and behaved under sentence, on the way, and
at the place of execution, with the utmost hardiness and unconcern,
not at all forced or constrained, but talked to the mob, and his
fellow sufferers in the cart, with as much disengaged ease, as if
he had been going to a ball or merry-making, and continued so to
within a few minutes of his death; for at the place of execution, his
behaviour was most intolerably indecent, talking and laughing aloud
as the executioner was tying them up; making use of most scandalous
and blasphemous expressions, at the instant of his launching into
eternity; and yet astonishing as it may seem, this active, wild and
extravagant youth, had only lived seventeen years.

And now, O Lord God Almighty, who by thy powerful hand, and
out-stretched arm, hast for the salvation of my soul, and the benefit
of thy creatures, (to whom I can make no other reparation, than to
make known to the public the injuries I have done) been pleased
through a series of unexampled acts of injustice, brought me down to
this most deserved sentence and doom; for my benefit, and that of thy
most extensive mercy and goodness. Oh! that I could make recompence
to the multitudes I have injured; but no means have I but this, by
laying all my crimes, as red as crimson, before the world. To thee,
O most merciful God, I most humbly prostrate myself: grant me in
this world, knowledge of thy truth, and in the world to come, life
everlasting. Amen.

  C. S.


FOOTNOTES:

[1] Warehouses or shops for the sale of European goods, are so called
in America.

[2] The Editor has been looking over some papers, shortly to be
published, in which an account is given of a woman, that in all
respects far out-strips Mrs. Pembruge. This creature, it seems,
whose preceding life had been far from good, was met with in the
fields by a person who was vastly taken with the plausableness of her
demeanour, an intimacy began; she being in the utmost distress, was
furnished with money, wearing apparel, and lodging; was supported
in a plentiful manner for five years, and with a house the three
last years, for which she received all the rent, amounting to thirty
pounds a year, besides an allowance of seven shillings per week in
money; but the ingratitude, baseness and corruption of manners of
the wretch, can never be parallelled: sloth, sluttishness, whoredom,
drunkenness, and gluttony, marked all her days; one of the most
merciful and compassionate of men, and the kindest benefactor to
her, was treated with every mark of ingratitude, and loaded with
every kind of reproach; deprived of his peace, happiness, content,
property, reputation, and even an attempt made to take away his life.
What will be the end of this woman, cannot be ascertained; though it
is far from being improbable her days will be either finished on a
dunghill, or at the gallows.

If there is any thing in the marks on human bodies, as the books of
Astrology and Divination would feign, this person is assuredly

  “Mark’d on the back, like Cain, by God’s own hand.
  Wander, like him, accurst thro’ all the land.”

Bad as this mirror of her sex was, she had an ancient grey-headed
life guardian, for her privy-councellor, confident, and servant, yet
far worse than she: with this old fellow she had lived in adultery
previous to the acquaintance above-mentioned, which continued, as
opportunity offered, to the time the pious old soldier assisted
the woman to rob her benefactor of all his property, with which
they retired, as to a place of refuge, among the foot-guards, and
black-guards, in Peter street, Westminster. This man makes vast
pretentions to religion, and a good name; yet it is plain, as the
account saith, he has no just pretentions to either.




  _Maxims, Hints, and Remarks, by way of Caution to the Public, to
  prevent or detect the Designs of Thieves and Sharpers from being
  carried into Execution._


I. Never place many different articles on the counter at one time;
nor turn your back on the pretended customer, but let some other
person put the different articles up, whilst you are intent upon the
business before you.

II. It is in general to be suspected if a person pulls out a
handkerchief, lays it down, and takes it up often, some ill is
intended; this was my constant practice with milliners and others, in
what lay in a small compass. It never failed of success.

III. The shopkeeper on seeing such methods as this made use of,
should remove the handkerchief from off their goods; which will give
the sharper reason to suspect his design is seen through.

IV. It is very common at haberdashers and other shops, which deal
in small articles, for every one that is wanted to be paid for,
the tradesman applies to his till for change; his eyes being fixed
thereon, then is the time something the nearest at hand on the
counter is moved off.

V. It is very easy to discover a thief or sharper from an honest
person; for the sharper asks for fifty things, none of which will do,
tosses them backwards and forwards, shuffles what can conveniently be
done aside, and moves off with the prize, promising to come again.

VI. Watch-makers and silver-smiths are imposed on principally thus;
in a morning or evening the sharper, well dressed, as a sea-officer,
will go to their shops, look at watches, buckles, rings, &c. when a
variety of these are laid on the counter, if opportunity offers, the
handkerchief is made use of with great advantage: should that fail,
then the goods are ordered to a tavern, coffee-house, or private
house, as best suits for ellegance or honesty; then the person is
instantly sent back for something omitted, whilst the prize is
secured, and the sharper moved off another way. Though this is an old
and stale trick, it is amazing how successful the practitioners in it
still are.

VII. Watch-makers should be extremely careful of strangers in their
shops; as many watches are always lying on the work-board, and others
hanging up, they should never have their eyes off the person: the
handkerchief is here made use of to great advantage; if the watch
is hung up, it damps any sound or tattling that might be made, and
screens it intirely from the sight of the owner.

VIII. There is something in the very aspect of a cheat and sharper,
which may be easily seen through: I know from experience, he
continually has his eyes fixed on the shopkeeper, or person he has
to deal with; has his body always in motion, whether standing or
sitting. The eye of a thief continually follows the person he intends
to deal upon.

IX. Dyers, scourers, and other persons, who have the property of many
in their possession, should not let the appearance of a sharper, be
it as genteel as it will, ever be parted with, but first by enquiring
the name, and looking in their books for it; and should they by
chance hit on a name, be sure to send the things in question home
to the owner’s house yourself, or send them with necessary cautions,
not to part with them on any account, but to the right owner. Women
and servants should never act on these occasions, in the absence of
the master; or be against sending for him from a neighbouring tavern,
coffee-house, &c.

X. Pickpockets are the most easily guarded against, of any kind of
thieves; it is people’s carelessness makes so many of this kind of
rogues; nor is there more of any kind detested than of these. Whether
through pride or negligence, I cannot say, but if people will go
with their coats loose, a good handkerchief hanging half way out of
their pocket, or the pocket flap thrust within, so that the contents,
as pocket-books, &c. may easily be seen, and as easily taken away.
The fob made so wide, and the chain and seals hanging down so long,
that the watch will draw out as easy as water run through a pipe.
People who go into crowds, or frequent the publick offices, should
have their pockets open on the inside of the coat, which can easily
be done; or else, as is customary with many, to have them on each
side the coat, breast high; and to have a small strong strap, to
button over the watch-chain, on the waistband of the breeches, will
effectually and for ever prevent picking of pockets, and the loss of
things of so much value. The smaller way in cutting women’s pockets,
&c. is but little practiced now; so that warning all people to take
care, and be on their guard in churches and publick assemblies, and
they will scarce have cause to complain.

XI. Footpads and street-robbers are neither to be guarded against,
or prevented, in my opinion, but by the vigilance and continual care
of the magistrates, in putting down bad houses, seizing suspected
robbers, and clearing the streets of whores. None of this kind of
thieves can expect to continue in their trade above a month or six
weeks, and the greatest part of them not half so long.

XII. Highwaymen are also very easily detected, by the method made use
of by Justice Fielding, for stable-keepers to fend an account to him
of the suspected robber’s horse, and a necessary description of his
person, especially if it answers that of the described robber. But
the method of thief-taking rather increase than diminish the number
of robbers. And large rewards for taking highwaymen, &c. is certainly
wrong, as old robbers are left unpunished, or taken, and young raw
thieves hanged in their stead. The former are thief-makers, and who
furnish business for the thief-takers.

  C. S.

       *       *       *       *       *

The preceding narrative, with the hints and remarks, are the work of
the unhappy sufferer himself. The Editor has been very faithful in
adhering to the letter of the narration; and cannot help looking on
it as the most extraordinary history of the kind, and of the greatest
service to the public of any thing similar to it in the whole world.
Unhappy for me, I knew nothing of the prisoner’s intentions till
Tuesday morning the 22d of November, the day before he suffered, by
one of Mr. Akerman’s servants; with some difficulty I got a sight of
the manuscript, the reading of which filled me with amazement; and
instantly determined as it would be for the publick benefit for it
to be printed, and resolved to see the prisoner, and agree with him
directly; the time was short, the copy to be read over betwixt us,
and many questions to be asked. I went into the Press-yard to him,
where I found a man of a genteel appearance, a likely person, thin
narrow face, somewhat cloudy brow’d, about five feet nine inches
high, of a spare slender make, his demeanour courteous and affable,
and his countenance, though pale, carried the vestigia not only of
serenity but innocence. On apprizing him of my business, he said,
“Sir, I know you not; but trust and hope you are an honest man: my
intentions in the publication, is much against the inclination of
my relations; I do it to make all the satisfaction in my power,
for the numberless injuries I have done to mankind, and to pay my
funeral expences, the executioner, the servants and others, to whom
I am indebted. It is worth a good deal of money, but I will leave to
your generosity what I am to have for it: the Ordinary has hitherto
refused me the Sacrament, under pretence of not being prepared, but
in reality, to get from me an account of my life and transactions,
for which he would not have given me one farthing, or his charity
extended so far towards me, as to furnish me with a little food to
keep soul and body together till the time of my death. That is no
part of his business. I have been supported by a gentlewoman through
my imprisonment in Newgate, in a most kind and christian manner; for
which I trust God will bless and reward her a thousand-fold. What
is farther wanted concerning me, the undertaker will inform you of
himself, or let you know where the gentlewoman is to be found; who
has got some other papers concerning me, and will deliver them to
you.”

We had just finished our business, when Mr. Cruden, famous for being
the author of a Concordance of the Sacred Scriptures, the best ever
yet seen in the Christian world, and well known in the republic of
letters, came into the prison, to pray with and comfort the five
unfortunate men; who very cordially, and with great fervency, joined
with him in prayer: Mr. Cruden adapted his whole prayer, which was
delivered extempore, to their present deplorable condition, with
great propriety and simplicity, to move them to a sense of their
guilt, to a firm trust and affiance in God’s mercy, and the certain
hope and expectation, on their sincere repentance, of enjoying a
state of eternal bliss in the world to come, through the blood,
merits, and intercession of Jesus Christ, the redeemer of all
mankind: that their state of probation here, was intended to qualify
them, for a much more high and happy state; and would be their own
fault if they did not attain it. To die, was natural to all men; but
the time when, or place where, not worthy a wise man or a Christian’s
notice. Then most heartily recommending them to God, and the word of
his grace, admonishing them to be chearful and resigned, he left them.

He had not been departed long, till Mr. Ordinary himself appeared;
but alas! what a falling off was here! Instead of his presence being
agreeable to them, as a Christian pastor should be, they looked upon
him as come for nothing but his own advantage; and rather to disturb
them with insignificant and impertinent questions, than to take care
of their poor souls; besides being honoured with execrations from
some of the bye-standers, for none but the Protestant prisoners were
suffered to be in Mr. Ordinary’s room: Mr. Cruden, on the contrary,
desired all present to join with him, and left the door open all
the time of prayer. Speckman and Broughton had the better of master
Ordinary, who was obliged to leave them without accomplishing the
only end he visited them for; who on coming out of the room, and
perhaps smelling a rat, came up to the Editor of this narrative,
with an assurance and countenance that carried the _true Shannon
dip_, asked what he came there for; and whether he wanted any thing
with _them there men_; in which being answered in the negative, he
vouchsafed to stalk away, blown up with his own sufficiency and
consequence.

Mr. Akerman, the keeper, to his eternal honour be it said, all this
time was busily employed in procuring food, at his own expence, for
the poor naked and starving prisoners, who many of them were at the
point of death with the goal distemper; but the Christian reader
will not be frightened at this, when he is told this distemper was
only hunger. On parting with Mr. Speckman, he solemnly declared,
as he trusted in God’s mercies, that every part of his copy was
strictly true; and now being satisfied of its publication, he should
die without fear, and with perfect resignation. The Editor, on
recollecting his person, and having seen him under sentence of death
in the beginning of the year 1751, made enquiry of the authenticity
of many robberies, &c. here related, and has found them all true in
every respect.

The prisoner requested some person might come to him from me in the
morning. I requested a worthy friend to do so; who went into the
Press-Yard, and the prisoner speedily came down; who, on putting his
leg up to have his setters taken off, lifted up his hands and eyes
towards heaven, and said in a kind of extasy, _This is the finest
Morn, that ever I have seen_. As soon as this was performed, he was
taken on one side to be haltered and pinioned, which he suffered to
be done with patience and resignation; praying with uncommon fervency
all the time. And then going with this friend to the upper end of the
Press-Yard, they read and prayed together for some time, and was
then asked if he had any thing farther to say concerning his life;
replied, It is all truth, but if Mr. S. finds any thing therein,
which may be thought not for the public good, that may be left
out if he pleases. At the conclusion of this he addressed himself
to the people, requesting their prayers, for his happy entrance
into eternity; declaring that he deserved to die, but had great
consolation in his last moments; that he never had beat, ill treated,
or murdered any one, save in one instance of the post-boy.

The friend was then desired to take some money out of his left
breeches pocket, which proved to be eight-pennyworth of half-pence,
and to give them to one of the servants who attended on him, desiring
his acceptance of that and his wig, which he had ordered to be sent
to him: Then wishing farewell to his friend, Mr. Melville a prisoner,
and the persons about him; was led by the officer to the cart:
which for the first time was hung in mourning, this added much to
the solemnity of the occasion. On the way to, and at the place of
execution, he was perfectly resigned to his irrevocable doom; and
to the last carried himself with the greatest decency and devotion,
in full expectation and hope of enjoying the life to come, in the
blessed regions of eternal day.

His body was taken care of by his friends, put into a coach and
carried to an Undertaker’s in Moorfields, where on searching his
pockets, there was found a prayer copied by him from a printed one,
two farthings, half a walnut-shell, into which was thrust a long
narrow slip of paper, on which he had wrote, “_I beg of you to
let your trust be in God, for there is your trust, and in no man
living_;” intending it for the young woman before mentioned. His
body was decently interred on Sunday evening the 27th of November,
in Tindall’s Burying-ground, Bunhill-fields; aged 29 years: and the
service of the church of England, at his own request when living, was
there performed.

Since writing the above, I have seen the Ordinary’s Account of
Speckman and the other criminals, and that he hath given what he
calls the Life of Speckman; which if the reader will give himself
the trouble of perusing, he will find nothing but absurdity and
contradiction; and that the unhappy man, at the instant of his
being turned off, told him was nothing but deceit, asked Master
Ordinary forgiveness, whose truly Christian disposition was on this
imminent occasion pleased to comply, and pray for the sufferer. This
undoubtedly is a laudable act, though the Ordinary did no more than
his duty, which I hope he’ll not think too much for him, to make his
only rule and guide for the time to come: as a pastor of such a flock
he hath much to do, and his constant presence and residence as near
the scene of action as the keeper; the necessity and obligation of
taking care of the souls of the prisoners, should go hand in hand
with that of the care of their bodies.

Such a wretched paper as the public is drenched with every execution,
it is hoped they will be no more bothered with, but if that should
be the case, it is confounded hard to pay six-pence for two sheets
of whited brown paper rubbed over in a very slovenly manner, but
the writing itself is truly inimitable, none but himself can be his
parallel; finally, should it ever fall in Mr. Ordinary’s way, to find
any of his brother pastors neglecting their duty, he will recommend
to them the following spirited admonition of a most famous poet on
occasion of the corrupted state of our national clergy, and under
the similitude of a shepherd; which cannot fail of bringing them back
to their original purity and usefulness.

    “Of other care they little reckoning make,
  Than how to scramble at the shearers feast,
  And shove away the worthy bidden guest;
  Blind mouths! that scarce themselves know how to hold
  A sheep-hook, or have learn’d aught else the least
  That to the faithful herdman’s art belongs!
  What recks it them? what need they? they are sped;
  And when they lift their lean and flashy songs,
  Grate on their scrannel pipes of wretched straw;
  The hungry sheep look up, but are not fed,
  But swol’n with wind, and the rank mist they draw,
  Rot inwardly and foul contagion spread;
  But that two handed engine at the door,
  Stands ready to smite once, and smite no more.”


FINIS.




  Transcriber’s Notes

  pg 13 Changed: he was sitting in the parlour, sombody came in
             to: he was sitting in the parlour, somebody came in

  pg 13 Changed: there was a watch stolen, so stoped
             to: there was a watch stolen, so stopped

  pg 15 Changed: for several days and nights; aad
             to: for several days and nights; and

  pg 18 Changed: I dared to continue any intercouse
             to: I dared to continue any intercourse

  pg 19 Changed: my commiting such a rash action
             to: my committing such a rash action

  pg 26 Changed: credit every where; but being disatisfied
             to: credit every where; but being dissatisfied

  pg 27 Changed: about thirty miles from the the places
             to: about thirty miles from the places

  pg 30 Changed: till my money was all exausted
             to: till my money was all exhausted

  pg 32 Changed: the the milliners and others
             to: the milliners and others

  pg 34 Changed: I went to a miliner’s
             to: I went to a milliner’s

  pg 38 Changed: meeting with the master of the the Crown inn
             to: meeting with the master of the Crown inn

  pg 39 Changed: I answered her in the affirmitive
             to: I answered her in the affirmative

  pg 41 Changed: by the persuation of a certain person
             to: by the persuasion of a certain person

  This book uses goal instead of gaol throughout.

*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE LIFE, TRAVELS, EXPLOITS,
FRAUDS AND ROBBERIES OF CHARLES SPECKMAN, ALIAS BROWN, WHO WAS EXECUTED
AT TYBURN ON WEDNESDAY 23D OF NOVEMBER, 1763 ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG™
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg”), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg™ License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg™
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg™ electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. “Project Gutenberg” is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg™ electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg™
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation (“the
Foundation” or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg™ mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg™
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg™ name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg™ License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg™ work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg™ License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg™ work (any work
on which the phrase “Project Gutenberg” appears, or with which the
phrase “Project Gutenberg” is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase “Project
Gutenberg” associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg™
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg™ electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg™ License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg™
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg™.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg™ License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg™ work in a format
other than “Plain Vanilla ASCII” or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg™ website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original “Plain
Vanilla ASCII” or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg™ License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg™ works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg™ electronic works
provided that:

• You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg™ works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg™ trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, “Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation.”

• You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg™
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg™
  works.

• You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

• You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg™ works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg™ trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg™ collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain “Defects,” such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the “Right
of Replacement or Refund” described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg™ trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg™ electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you “AS-IS”, WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg™ electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg™
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg™ work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg™ work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg™

Project Gutenberg™ is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg™'s
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg™ collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg™ and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg™ depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg™ electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg™ concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg™ eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg™ eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg™,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
